= Assignment Lists

Version:: 0.2
Author::  Yuri Leikind
Website:: http://leikind.org/pages/wice-assignment-lists
Email::   "Yuri Leikind" <yuri.leikind at gmail dot com>


Assignment Lists makes it dead easy to create a widget consisting of two multiple selection lists with
items moveable from one to another, and an ajax filter field for the left list to simplify searching for elements.

Assignment Lists fits well as the UI for +has_many+ and +has_and_belongs_to_many+ relations.

Assignment Lists can work under Prototype or jQuery. See installation instructions.

Assignment Lists works with Rails 2.3.8 with or without rails_xss.

== Installation

Install the plugin:

  script/plugin install  http://github.com/leikind/wice_assignment_lists.git

Run the generator to copy the javascript, the stylesheet, and the icons to public, and the configuration file to <tt>config/initializers</tt>:

   ./script/generate  assignment_lists_assets


Require the stylesheet:

     <%= stylesheet_link_tag 'assignment_lists' %>

This generator copies two javascript files into <tt>public/javascripts</tt> -
<tt>assignment_lists_prototype.js</tt> and <tt>assignment_lists_jquery.js</tt>.

=== Prototype

For a Prototype based app, just delete <tt>assignment_lists_jquery.js</tt> and add require the correct 
javascript file in your layout:

     <%= javascript_include_tag 'assignment_lists_jquery' %>

=== jQuery

For a jQuery based app, edit <tt>config/initializers/ass_lists_config.rb</tt> and change

  AssignmentLists::Defaults::JS_FRAMEWORK = :prototype
  
to

  AssignmentLists::Defaults::JS_FRAMEWORK = :jquery
  
Then delete <tt>assignment_lists_prototype.js</tt> and add require the correct 
javascript file in your layout:

     <%= javascript_include_tag 'assignment_lists_jquery' %>

== Example


Models:

  class Role < ActiveRecord::Base
     has_and_belongs_to_many :users
  end

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
     has_and_belongs_to_many :roles
  end

Routes:

  map.resource :roles, :member => {:filter => :post}

Controller :

  class RolesController < ActionController::Base
    layout 'common'

    def edit
      @adminstrator_role = Role.find(:first)
      @all_users         = User.find(:all)
    end

    def update
      @adminstrator_role = Role.find(:first)
      @adminstrator_role.users = params[:users].blank? ? [] : User.find(params[:users])
      redirect_to :action => 'edit'
    end

    def filter
      assignment_lists_filter(:users) do |str|
        User.find(:all, :conditions => ['name LIKE ?', "%" + str + "%"])
      end
    end
  end

View:

  <% form_tag roles_path, :method =>:put do %>

    <%= assignment_lists(:users, @all_users, @adminstrator_role.users,
      :filter_path  => filter_roles_path,
      :label1 => 'All users',
      :label2 => 'Administrators') -%>

    <%= submit_tag 'update' %>
  <% end %>


The first argument to +assignment_lists+ is the name of the widget, and this is going to be the name
of the HTTP parameter which will be sent from the form. The same string or symbol should be the argument to
+assignment_lists_filter+.

This request parameter will contain a list of IDs of objects in the right column.

To retrieve the label of an item in a list, method +name+ is used by default.
If it is needed to use a method other than +name+,
parameter +method_to_retrieve_object_name+ can be used to change the default:

  <%= assignment_lists(:users, @all_users, @adminstrator_role.users,
    :method_to_retrieve_object_name => :some_method_name
    :filter_path  => filter_roles_path,
    :label1 => 'All user groups',
    :label2 => 'Groups of the user') -%>


Filtering can turned off completely by omitting the <tt>:filter_path</tt> parameter,
in this mode the widget consists of only two lists and buttons without the filter field.

No filter action is needed in the controller in this case.

Various defaults can be changed in file <tt>lib/ass_lists_config.rb</tt>.


== Icons

Icons used by the plugin are courtesy of Mark James, the creator of the SILK icon set -
http://www.famfamfam.com/lab/icons/silk/.
